So, you want to go to the World Cup.
Well, it's going to cost you.
>> I don't think we're going to the World
Cup anymore, bro.
>> Their cheapest $7,000.
>> Original purchase price 446, resale
price $22,316.
It's insanity.
>> The World Cup's return to North America
will be unprecedented in more ways than
one. It's the first FIFA tournament to
take place across three nations with 16
host cities in the US, Mexico, and
Canada.
>> This is the first tournament where we're
going to have 48 countries represented
instead of 32.
That means there's going to be 104
matches played.
>> It's also the first World Cup where
tickets are subject to dynamic pricing,
and that's changing the game, so to
speak.
>> pricing means is that prices change,
could be on an hourly basis, on daily
basis, or weekly basis, depending on
supply and demand.
>> This is something that we are used to
seeing in the US, but around the globe,
this is the first time they've
introduced something like this.
>> The US is the ultimate market, and
FIFA's using that to their full
advantage in this tournament.
>> We have to apply market [music] rates.
This is the World Cup.
>> You have a lot of resale, a lot of
speculative buyers going in there to
later try to sell for a markup. And so,
the big question I think people have is
is this demand real?
>> And ticket prices aren't the only
obstacle for fans.
>> coming to see some
soccer
>> We want them to come, we want them to
celebrate, but when the time is up,
[music] they'll have to go home.
>> Don't overstay your visa.
>> Trump's policies on immigration and
tourism have approved to be very hard
for some people from specific countries
to get visas to attend the tournament.
>> [music]
>> It has said to put some people off of
wanting to visit here.
>> And if people can't or don't attend the
games,
>> [music]
>> then what seemed like a profitable event
for host cities
could turn into a financial black
>> Financial fallout could be anywhere from
100 to 200 million dollars. That's the
cost for a host city.
>> The World Cup will have a winner. One
team will take away the trophy,
>> [music]
>> but some of its losers may never
actually set foot on the playing field.
>> [cheering]
[music]
>> Football, well, technically soccer since
we're in North America this time round,
has finally come into its own in the US.
>> Soccer has seen a massive growth over
the last 30 years since the World Cup in
1994.
Now one of the biggest stars in the
world, [music]
Lionel Messi, plays for Inter Miami.
Their business grew an exponential
amount.
>> The league is now 30 teams. The value of
the enterprise is over 20 billion
dollars.
>> But at the same time, they aren't on the
par of other sports leagues in the US.
So this is really the moment that they
have to capture the world audience, to
capture the US audience.
>> [music]
>> The US market, coupled with other
advantages, makes it an attractive and
lucrative location for FIFA.
>> FIFA comes over and they visit where
people want to have the games. They
visit the stadiums, and that's how they
decide where it should be and if they
have the right facilities and they have
the right infrastructure.
>> The good news about the United States,
Mexico, and Canada is we have the
facilities already. Although FIFA
requires there to be some modifications
to them, we didn't have to build the
facilities from scratch. [music]
>> But hosting the World Cup is notoriously
complicated.
>> Host cities want to host the World Cup
because of the economic impact that they
all get back. New York alone expects
about 3.3 billion dollars in economic
impact. Dallas [music] expects about 2.1
billion. LA around 1 billion.
Expectations aren't always reality, and
these economic impact numbers that FIFA
and the cities come up with are
typically inflated numbers.
They end up fronting the bill, and FIFA
really just takes all of the revenue
from the games.
>> Looking at costs and revenues from
[music] 14 past World Cups, shown here
in blue and orange, a clear pattern
emerges. Nearly every host nation lost
money.
Russia was the only exception.
>> Your host city has to sign a contract
with FIFA, and that host contract
requires [music] the city to take care
of all of these needs. Security is one
of them.
>> [music]
>> Transportation is another one.
Producing fan fests in the city is
another major expense.
>> They grab a park in the city where
they'll pull up some big screens, and in
theory, that's a place where fans can go
free of charge, watch games, have a good
time. But, you know, what we're already
hearing is that some cities, under the
financial constraints they have, are
considering charging for the fan fests.
>> The US government agreed to hand out
$625 million in federal funding to help
with security measures across all 11
host cities in the [music] US.
>> That's a good chunk of money, but it's
not nearly enough to to deal with the
potential security problems. If you have
that cost on one side, and on the other
side, you have essentially zero
revenues,
>> [music]
>> then you have a net loss of that amount
of money. Now, some of that money will
be defrayed by local sponsorship deals,
private donations, but the balance would
be defrayed by the taxpayer.
>> And if the crowds do show up, this will
also strain local transportation, and
that's another area where municipalities
are trying to make up the difference.
>> To get from New York to the stadium in
New Jersey, a round trip ticket is going
to cost about $100. It's been reduced
from $150 after backlash.
This is up from $13 a regular price for
this ticket in a non-World Cup day.
>> Cities are somehow trying to claw back
some of the investment that they've made
in the tournament, and it remains to be
seen whether they're going to kind of
squeeze the fan enough to get some of
that money back and not have to pass
anything on to to taxpayers.
>> [music]
>> FIFA's limiting parking spots so that
they can have more infrastructure around
the stadiums,
and that means that the few spots that
are left are going to be for premium
prices.
>> For [music] international fans, it's a
whole other ballgame.
Airline prices have soared,
>> [music]
>> and politics is not helping.
For this fan in Senegal, [music] the red
tape to get into the US has reinforced a
perception that it's a hostile
environment for visitors.
>> [music]
[music]
>> There are already groups of thousands of
people who have signed petitions that
say they've gone to all of the World Cup
games in the last 20 years, but they're
not going to the United States
>> [music]
>> cuz they don't like the immigration
policies that have been set by the Trump
government.
>> No American president has ever had the
chance
>> Ironically, Trump himself professes to
be a soccer fan.
And Gianni Infantino, the president of
FIFA, has made a point of cultivating
this [music] interest.
>> Infantino and President Trump have a
very, very close relationship. Infantino
has gone to the White House many times.
>> Infantino
created a new FIFA Peace Prize,
>> [music]
>> and he gave it to Donald Trump after
Donald Trump complained about not
getting the Nobel Peace Prize.
>> And who knows, maybe such flattery
helped move [music] the way for the
Iranian team to participate in the
games.
>> Iran will be participating at the FIFA
[music] World Cup 2026.
>> [applause]
>> Did Gianni say it?
>> He did.
>> [music]
>> What did they wait?
>> Gianni Infantino, that's a piece of
work.
>> You know what? Let them play well.
Gianni's fantastic, you know, he's a
friend of mine.
>> You know, for Trump, this is more
publicity, right? He's going to be there
in the stands. He's going to be seen as
someone who's, you know, partly
responsible for putting on this massive
tournament. These 104 Super Bowls, as
Infantino's said.
>> The equivalent of 104 Super Bowls
[music] means turbocharged revenue, and
for FIFA, that appears to be the point.
>> FIFA is going to earn over this
four-year cycle that the current World
Cup will take place in in something like
13 billion dollars.
>> That's a fivefold increase compared to
the period [music] ending with the 2006
World Cup in Germany.
To be fair, FIFA is a nonprofit. It says
the money left after operating costs
gets reinvested into growing the sport
around the world.
>> And divide it up amongst the world's
national soccer organizations, [music]
and they spread it out so those
organizations can exist and can develop
youth soccer and adult soccer in their
countries.
>> A huge chunk of their revenue, like with
most sports, comes from broadcast
rights, which are expected to generate
about 3.9 billion dollars this year.
And the fact is, a lot of people will be
watching the games on TV because of
those dynamic ticket prices.
>> FIFA has also organized its own resale
platform.
And they're going to take commissions
from both the buyer and the seller. And
that's just going to add to the revenue.
>> Even FIFA's process of seat assignment
is being questioned over concerns some
who bought tickets aren't getting what
they paid for.
It's another yellow card for an
organization that is no stranger to
money scandals.
FIFA hasn't been totally tone deaf to
price concerns.
Following a global backlash, they added
a $60 ticket option for some of the
World Cup teams' most loyal fans.
But these cheaper tickets will make up
less than 2% of the total.
So, attending the World Cup final may
mean you have to inhabit a certain kind
of world. Mainly, a corporate one.
>> These World Cup packages, it's not
something that normal people can really
afford.
>> Exclusivity threatens to derail the
games, especially in the US, where
soccer isn't necessarily ingrained in
the hearts of sports fans.
>> If you do this in a country where
football is the number one sport,
you know, I dare say there would be some
kind of like, you know, potential for
like a bloody revolt.
>> A lot of people I have spoken [music] to
said there are risks for some of the
stadiums to be empty for games where two
countries are playing each other that
don't have a large diaspora of fans in
that area. The reality is some of these
tickets might end up dropping very close
to the tournament because the last thing
that FIFA wants is for the broadcast to
show empty stadiums.
>> Soccer penetrates a culture.
And if its presence is reduced, it
becomes less desirable.
And so, how do you have a mass base if
the masses can't afford to go to the
games.
>> [music]